The Project Gutenberg eBook of My Hundred Favorite Recipes, by Mary Blake

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: My Hundred Favorite Recipes

Author: Mary Blake

Release Date: June 4, 2021 [eBook #65501]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY HUNDRED FAVORITE RECIPES ***




                               My Hundred
                           _favorite_ Recipes
                              _Mary Blake_


                               Copyright
                      Carnation Milk Products Co.
                                  1927
                         C485—Printed in U.S.A.

    [Illustration: Decorative border]

  “_The turnpike road to people’s hearts I find
  Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind.”
                                                            —Dr. Wolcot_

This little book is sent to you in the hope that among its recipes you
will find many new and tasty dishes. My own favorite recipes are
contained herein, one hundred of them, and I can promise that you will
find them all thoroughly practical.

                                                            _Mary Blake_

                       Home Economics Department
                    Carnation Milk Products Company.
                              _Offices at_
                    Oconomowoc, Wis., Aylmer, Ont.,
                      New York, and Seattle, Wash.




                  _The Delight of the New in Cookery_


    [Illustration: Dairy farm]

No matter how old a story cooking is to us, no matter how little zest we
think we have for it, we need only to have a new recipe, a new
ingredient or a new method in cookery held tantalizingly before us to
discover that our interest hasn’t waned after all. For the quest of the
new and better in cookery never loses its allure.


_Even Milk has New Secrets to Reveal_

Milk, perhaps more than anything else, seems to hold no novelty for us.
Yet we recognize in it our most important food, supplying all the
elements needed for health and growth. We know that doctors and
dietitians insist upon a quart of milk a day for each member of the
family. And we know that the simplest way to provide this milk is
through its generous use in cooking, thereby supplying it in such a
variety of form that no one tires of it.

It is therefore extremely interesting to discover that milk can
contribute to our cookery a deliciousness of flavor, a smoothness of
texture, a richness, a dependability of result and an economy of other
materials that we have never experienced if we have confined our use of
milk to ordinary bottled milk.

Only a milk of uniformly high quality and richness can produce such
cooking results. To secure this uniformly high quality and richness many
thousands of women have turned to a form of milk that adds immeasurably
to the success of cookery—Carnation Evaporated Milk.


_What Carnation Milk IS_

Carnation Milk is simply the purest of rich whole milk, from fine herds,
evaporated to double richness, “homogenized,” and sterilized for safe
keeping. To insure the quality and purity of this milk, the Carnation
Company maintains at the famous Carnation Milk Farms two of the largest
herds of pure bred Holsteins in the world—among them the world’s
greatest milk and butter producers—and introduces this high milk
producing strain into the many herds of “Contented Cows” from which the
milk for the Carnation condenseries is obtained. Carnation field men
constantly supervise these herds to insure the proper care and feeding
of the cows, and the cleanliness of the surroundings and milking
methods.

It is this better milk—rushed to the Carnation condenseries in
sterilized cans, tested and retested for purity and richness, evaporated
to double richness, “homogenized” to break up the cream globules into
minute particles and keep them uniformly distributed all through the
milk, sealed in clean, air-tight cans and sterilized—that you get in
every can of Carnation.

Nothing is added to it; nothing taken out except sixty per cent of the
water (milk is eighty-seven per cent water as it comes from the cow).
Perfect sterilization gives it a rich creamy color and insures its
staying sweet and pure indefinitely.


_What Carnation Milk DOES_

Being doubly rich because of evaporation, Carnation Milk gives to every
dish in which it is used the benefit of its double creaminess.
Naturally, when you use Carnation in its concentrated form, you save
decidedly on butter and cream.

Being always pure and sweet, never varying in richness and high quality
Carnation gives _uniformly dependable_ results in cookery. Being
“homogenized,” Carnation Milk with its unusually fine and evenly
distributed cream particles gives a creaminess, a velvety smoothness, a
fine texture, that even the finest of bottled milk cannot equal. Soups
and sauces, candies and cakes, ice creams, custards, puddings, waffles
and griddle cakes are among the many dishes to which Carnation gives
this notably smooth, delicate texture.

Among home economics experts Carnation Milk has an extremely wide
acceptance. These women, to whom cooking is both a science and an art,
choose Carnation not only for the definitely improved quality which it
gives to so many dishes, but because its convenient and dependable form
and its freedom from waste, are in keeping with modern standards of
efficiency in the kitchen.


_Carnation as a Baby Food_

Our best baby food, of course, is mother’s milk. But if a baby can not
have mother’s milk, then Carnation is recommended, modified according to
the physician’s directions. The tiny butter fat globules, evenly
distributed, make Carnation Milk easy for the baby to digest. Then too,
because of the heat of sterilization, the curd formed in the stomach is
softer and more easily digested than that formed by raw milk.

You can get Carnation anywhere, take it anywhere, with the utmost
confidence that the milk’s purity and controlled uniformity will protect
the baby from upsets so often caused by milk of changing and uncertain
quality. If you would like more information about Carnation for baby
feeding, I will gladly send you one of our interesting folders, which
deals with this subject.


_Now Try Carnation_

The recipes which follow have been perfected in our own kitchen, to
insure your obtaining the superior results which the quality of
Carnation Milk makes possible.

Order Carnation today from your grocer and prepare to enjoy “the delight
of the _new_ in cookery.”

    [Illustration: Carnation Milk]

                   CARNATION MILK FOR BETTER COOKING




                           GENERAL DIRECTION


_Making Accurate Measurements_

In order to insure perfect results measurements should be accurately
made and directions carefully followed. Use standard measuring cups and
spoons and make all measurements absolutely level. In order to do this
fill the cup or spoon and then level with a knife. Half, quarter, and
third cupfuls are indicated by marks on the cup. To measure a half
spoonful, fill the spoon, level, and then divide lengthwise. To measure
a quarter spoonful divide the halves crosswise.

Flour should always be sifted once before measuring.

In measuring butter and other solid fats, pack solidly. When the recipe
calls for a certain amount of butter melted, measure before melting.
When it calls for melted butter, measure after melting.


_Standard Measurements_

  tsp.                            teaspoon
  tbsp.                           tablespoon

  3 tsp                           1 tbsp.
  16 tbsp                         1 cup
  2 cups                          1 pint
  2 pints                         1 quart
  2 cups solid fat                1 pound
  2 cups gran. sugar              1 pound
  2⅔ cups powdered sugar          1 pound
  2⅔ cups brown sugar             1 pound
  4 cups flour                    1 pound
  1 sq. bitter chocolate          1 ounce


_Precautions to be Observed in Heating Milk_

Since milk scorches very easily it is advisable to heat it in a double
boiler. If heated directly over the fire the heat should be low or an
asbestos mat should be placed under the pan. If a double boiler is not
used the milk requires careful watching and stirring to prevent
scorching.


_The Use of Carnation as Cream or Milk_

If you wish to use Carnation in place of cream, use it undiluted. Used
as milk, dilute it with an equal amount of water. Use half Carnation and
half water in any recipe calling for milk.




                                _Soups_


    [Illustration: Soups]

Cream soups make a delightful addition to the diet and provide a
splendid way to include more milk. They also are an excellent means of
using left over vegetables, vegetable water, and the liquid from canned
vegetables. Cream soups not only stimulate the appetite, causing the
digestive juices to flow more freely, but also are very nutritious.
Because Carnation Milk is rich and creamy it is the secret of the
creaminess of these soups.


_Garnishes for Cream Soups_

What a magic effect a little garnishing has and how easily it converts a
simple dish of soup into one that is deliciously attractive! The
following garnishes are all suitable for cream soups:

  Vegetables cut in fancy shapes
  Dash of paprika
  Bit of chopped parsley
  Little grated cheese
  Spoonful of whipped cream
  Spoonful of puffed rice
  Croutons
  Toasted cheese sticks
  Squares of custard


CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP

  1 can of tomato soup
  1 tall can of Carnation Milk

Heat the milk and the tomato soup in different pans but at the same
time, watching carefully to prevent scorching. When both are piping hot
(not boiling) and you are ready to serve, pour the hot tomato into the
hot Carnation and serve immediately. To avoid curdling be sure to pour
the tomato into the milk instead of vice versa. Do not combine the
tomato and milk until ready to serve as these should be heated
separately. This makes a thick and delicious soup. Serves 4.

                   CARNATION MILK MAKES CREAMY SOUPS


CREAM OF PEA SOUP

  1 No. 2 can peas
  1 slice onion
  1½ tsp. sugar
  1½ tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  2 tbsp. butter
  2 tbsp. flour
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  1 cup water

Drain and measure liquid from peas and add enough water to make 2 cups
of liquid. Add peas, onion, sugar, salt, and pepper and simmer for 15
minutes. Rub through a sieve. Make a white sauce of butter, flour, and
Carnation diluted with water. Add paprika. Combine pea mixture and white
sauce and serve while hot. Serves 6.


CREAM OF POTATO SOUP

  3 medium sized potatoes
  2 slices onion
  2 tbsp. butter
  2 tbsp. flour
  1½ tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  ¼ tsp. celery salt
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 cups potato water
  1 tbsp. chopped parsley

Cut potatoes in small pieces and cook with onion in boiling salted water
until tender—use 3 cups of water and ½ teaspoon salt. Drain (saving the
potato water) and rub the potatoes through a sieve. There should be
about 2 cups of potato pulp. Make a white sauce of the butter, flour,
seasonings, Carnation, and potato water. Add slowly to the potatoes,
stirring to keep smooth. Reheat in the double boiler. Sprinkle with
chopped parsley and serve very hot. Serves 6.


CREAM OF CELERY SOUP

  3 cups celery
  1 slice onion
  2 tbsp. butter
  3 tbsp. flour
  1 tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 cups celery liquor
  Paprika

Wash, scrape, and cut celery in ½ inch pieces; cook with slice of onion
in 3 cups boiling water until celery is soft—about 30 minutes. Drain
(saving the celery liquor) and rub through a sieve. Make a white sauce
of the butter, flour, seasonings, Carnation, and celery liquor. Combine
celery pulp and white sauce and serve while hot. Serves 6.


CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP

  1 can of mushrooms (8-oz.) (Get can containing stems and broken
              pieces)
  2 tbsp. butter
  3 tbsp. flour
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  1 tsp. salt
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  Paprika

Drain and measure liquor from mushrooms and add enough water to make 2
cups of liquid. Add chopped mushrooms and simmer for 15 minutes. Make
white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and Carnation. Add
mushrooms with their liquid and serve while hot. Serves 6.


OYSTER STEW

  1 pint oysters
  2 cups Carnation
  2 cups water
  2 tbsp. butter
  1 tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  ¼ tsp. celery salt
  1 tbsp. chopped parsley
  Paprika

Carefully clean the oysters, removing any bits of shell. Heat in their
own liquor until the edges curl. Season and add with butter and parsley
to the 2 cups of Carnation and 2 cups of water which have been scalded
together. Serves 6.

                    CARNATION MILK MAKES RICH SAUCES




                                _Sauces_


_For Fish and Vegetables_

How tempting a most ordinary food is made by the addition of an
attractive sauce—one that is smooth and creamy, with delicate flavors
well blended! The generous use of a variety of sauces is, to be sure,
one of the secrets of French cookery. Sauces containing liberal amounts
of milk not only stimulate the appetite and cause digestive juices to
flow more freely but also are very nutritious.


WHITE SAUCE

                                          Butter      Flour

  No. 1 For Cream Soups                  ½ tbsp.    ½ tbsp.
  No. 2 For Creamed Vegetables          1½ tbsp.   1½ tbsp.
  No. 3 For Croquettes                   3 tbsp.    3 tbsp.

  ½ tsp. Salt
  few grains Pepper
  ½ cup Carnation
  ½ cup Water

Melt fat in top part of double boiler; add flour and seasonings and mix
thoroughly. Add the Carnation diluted with the water and stir constantly
until smooth and thick. Place over hot water and continue cooking for 10
minutes, stirring occasionally.


CHEESE SAUCE

Add ⅓ cup of grated cheese to 1 cup of White Sauce No. 2 and stir until
it is melted. Serve hot with vegetables or fish.


PIMIENTO SAUCE

Add 3 tbsp. chopped pimiento to 1 cup of white sauce No. 2. Serve hot
with vegetables or fish.


EGG SAUCE

Add 1 chopped hard cooked egg, 1 tbsp. chopped parsley, and ¼ tsp.
celery salt to 1 cup of white sauce No. 2. Serve hot with vegetables or
fish.


CAPER SAUCE

  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water
  2 tbsp. butter
  2 tbsp. flour
  1 small onion
  ½ tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  ¼ cup capers

Scald the Carnation and water together. Melt the butter, add chopped
onion and when brown add the flour and let brown; add the salt, pepper,
and scalded milk, stirring constantly. Cook for about five minutes and
add the drained capers. Serve hot with fish.


MOCK HOLLANDAISE SAUCE

  1 tbsp. butter
  2 tbsp. flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  2 egg yolks
  ¼ cup butter
  1 tbsp. lemon juice
  Few grains cayenne

Follow method given above for White Sauce. Stir in beaten egg yolks
after sauce is cooked and then add butter, bit by bit, and finally the
lemon juice. Serve hot with vegetables or fish.




                                 _Fish_


    [Illustration: Fish]

A variety of canned fish available at all times and places can be easily
converted into a number of appetizing dishes which add variety to the
menu. By keeping a selection of these canned products on hand the
housewife is always prepared for the unexpected guest.


SALMON CROQUETTES

  1 cup white sauce No. 3 (see recipe page 7)
  1¾ cup flaked salmon
  1 tsp. lemon juice
  Salt and pepper
  1 egg
  Bread crumbs
  Parsley

Add flaked salmon and lemon juice to white sauce and season with salt
and pepper. Shape, roll in crumbs, then in slightly beaten egg, and
again in the bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat, heated until hot enough to
brown a piece of bread in 40 seconds (375°F). Drain and garnish with
parsley. Serves 5.


SHRIMP WIGGLE

  2¼ tbsp. butter
  2¼ tbsp. flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  Few grains pepper
  Paprika
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  ¾ cup water
  1 cup shrimps
  1 cup canned peas

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and Carnation
diluted with the water. Drain the shrimps, remove the dark vein; break
the shrimps into pieces and add to white sauce. Also add the drained
peas. When the mixture is thoroughly heated serve on toast points.
Garnish with parsley or olives. Serves 5.


TUNA FISH A LA KING

  2 tbsp. butter
  ½ green pepper, shredded
  1 hard cooked egg
  ½ cup chopped mushrooms
  3 tbsp. flour
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  1 cup water
  Salt and pepper
  1½ cups tuna fish
  ½ cup peas

Sauté green pepper and mushrooms in butter until tender (about 10
minutes), keeping covered while cooking. Remove mushrooms and pepper and
blend flour with the fat. Add the Carnation diluted with the water and
cook until the mixture is thickened, stirring constantly to prevent
lumping. Place flaked tuna fish, peas, egg, mushrooms, and pepper in top
of double boiler. Pour over this the sauce and continue cooking over hot
water for 10 minutes. Serve in patty shells or on toast points. Serves
6. Lobster or shrimp may be used instead of tuna fish.




                                _Meats_


    [Illustration: Meats]

Both fish and meat are important sources of tissue building material.
The following recipes illustrate a few of the interesting combinations
possible in preparing meat.


CREAMED CHIPPED BEEF

  ¼ lb. chipped beef
  2 tbsp. butter
  2½ tbsp. flour
  Pepper
  ½ tsp. salt
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  ¾ cup water

Shred the dried beef, cover with hot water, let stand 10 minutes, then
drain. Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and
Carnation diluted with ¾ cup water. Add the chipped beef and serve on
toast points or with mashed or baked potatoes. Serves 4.


CHICKEN A LA KING

  2 tbsp. butter or chicken fat
  ¼ green pepper, shredded
  ¾ cup mushrooms, chopped
  3 tbsp. flour
  ¼ pimiento, shredded
  1 cup chicken broth
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  Salt and pepper
  1½ cups cold chicken

Sauté the green pepper and mushrooms in the butter until tender (about
10 minutes), keeping them covered while cooking. Remove the mushrooms
and peppers and blend the flour and seasonings with the fat left in the
pan; then add the broth and Carnation and cook until thickened, stirring
constantly. Place the chicken, cut in ½ inch dice, pimiento, green
pepper, and mushrooms in top part of double boiler. Pour over this the
sauce and continue cooking over hot water for 10 minutes. Serve in patty
shells or on toast points. Serves 6.


CARNATION BAKED HAM

  1 slice ham about 2 inches thick
  1 tbsp. flour
  2 tbsp. brown sugar
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  ¾ cup water

Trim off fat, cut into small pieces, and mix with the sugar. Rub the
flour into the ham, then put into a baking dish. Sprinkle fat-sugar
mixture over the top and pour over it the Carnation diluted with water.
Place in a hot (425°F) oven. After 15 minutes reduce the temperature to
275°F—a slow oven. Bake until tender, about 2½ hours. Garnish with hard
boiled eggs and parsley. Enough milk should remain for gravy. Large
slice of ham serves 8.

              CARNATION MILK IS CONVENIENT AND ECONOMICAL


BEEF LOAF

  ½ lb. pork
  ½ lb. veal
  1 lb. beef
  ½ cup bread crumbs
  ½ onion, finely minced
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅓ cup water
  1 egg, slightly beaten
  1½ tsp. salt
  Few grains pepper
  4 thin slices of fat salt pork or bacon

Put meat through a food chopper, mix, and add ingredients in order
given. Shape in a loaf; put in a pan and lay across the top of the loaf
the slices of salt pork or bacon. Place in a hot oven (425°F). After 15
minutes reduce the heat to 300°F—a slow oven. Bake 1½ hours, basting
frequently. Garnish with parsley. Serves 6.


PORK CHOPS AND POTATOES A LA CARNATION

  6 potatoes
  1½ tsp. salt
  Few grains pepper
  1 tbsp. butter
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  1¼ cups water
  Bread crumbs
  2 tbsp. flour
  6 pork chops
  1 egg

Scald Carnation and water in a double boiler. Pare and slice potatoes in
¼ inch slices. Place a layer in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with
salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and dot over with bits of butter.
Repeat and add the scalded milk until it can be seen through the top
layer. Dip pork chops in egg and roll in bread crumbs. Place on top of
potatoes and bake in a moderate (350°F) oven until the potatoes are
soft. Serves 6.


CREAMED SWEET BREADS

  1 lb. sweetbreads
  1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice
  ⅔ cup peas
  2¼ tbsp. butter
  2¼ tbsp. flour
  Pepper
  ½ tsp. salt
  ¾ cup Carnation
  ¾ cup water

Soak the sweet breads in cold water for an hour. Cook until tender
(about 20 minutes) in boiling water to which ½ tsp. salt and 1 tbsp.
vinegar or lemon juice have been added. When tender plunge into cold
water to harden. Remove membranes and cut or break into small pieces.
Add the peas. Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and
Carnation diluted with ¾ cup water. Add sweet breads and peas, reheat
and serve in patty cases or on toast points. Diced chicken or mushrooms
may be added, if desired. Serves 6.


CARNATION VEAL BIRDS

  1½ lbs. veal steak (¼ inch thick)
  3 slices bacon
  ½ small onion
  1 tbsp. butter
  ½ cup bread crumbs
  ½ tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  1 tsp. summer savory
  3 tbsp. bacon drippings
  ½ cup Carnation Milk

Cut veal steak into strips 4×2½ inches, each strip making a bird. Chop
trimmings of veal, bacon, and onion and brown in 1 tbsp. butter. Add
bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and savory. Moisten with hot water. Spread
each piece of veal with a thin layer of the mixture being careful not to
put it too close to the edge. Roll and fasten with skewers or white
cord. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and fry in bacon
drippings until well browned. Add water to half cover the meat and cook
slowly about 40 minutes or until tender. Take birds out of pan and
remove skewers or cord. Add Carnation to the juice in the pan and heat.
Pour this gravy over the birds and serve at once. Serves 5.

                 CARNATION MILK FOR CREAMING VEGETABLES




                              _Vegetables_


Serving vegetables in an attractive form is an important part of cookery
because of the value of vegetables in the diet. They add the necessary
bulk, some contain energy yielding material, some furnish tissue
building material, but their greatest value lies in their rich mineral
and vitamin content, both of which are essential for growth and for
health. Doctors and dietitians advise the daily serving of at least two
vegetables besides potato, one of these to be served in the raw form, as
in a salad.

In order to prevent loss of minerals and destruction of vitamins it is
best to cook the vegetables in the shortest time possible and in a small
amount of water. Since the water in which vegetables are cooked or
canned is rich in minerals it should never be discarded. It can be used
for soups and for creaming the vegetables.


SPINACH AU GRATIN

  3 tbsp. butter
  3 tbsp. flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  1 can Spinach (No. 2)
  ¾ cup Spinach liquid
  ¼ cup grated cheese
  Stir ½ cup dried bread crumbs in 2 tbsp. butter, melted

Melt the butter; add flour and seasonings and mix thoroughly; add
Carnation and the liquid drained from the can of spinach. Stir
constantly until smooth and thick. Add the grated cheese and as soon as
this is melted add the spinach. Put the mixture into a casserole, cover
with buttered bread crumbs and put in the oven for 10 minutes or until
the crumbs are browned. Serves 5.


SCALLOPED CABBAGE

  1 medium head of cabbage
  3 slices of broiled bacon
  1 cup of White Sauce No. 2 (see page 7)
  ½ green pepper
  ½ cup bread crumbs stirred in
  2 tbsp. melted butter

Cut cabbage in quarters, cook in boiling salted water (using 1 tsp. salt
to 1 quart water) until tender—about 15 minutes. Cut the broiled bacon
in small squares, dice the green pepper, and add both to the white
sauce. Put alternate layers of cabbage and white sauce in a casserole,
shaking salt over each layer of cabbage before adding the white sauce.
Cover the top layer with buttered crumbs and brown in a moderate oven.
Serves 6.


CORN SOUFFLE

  3 tbsp. butter
  4 tbsp. flour
  1 tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  ¼ tsp. celery salt
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water
  1 cup canned corn
  2 tbsp. chopped pimiento
  3 eggs

Make white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and Carnation diluted
with the water. Add the corn, pimiento, and beaten egg yolks. Fold in
beaten egg whites and pour into buttered baking dish; bake in a slow
oven until firm (about 30 minutes). Serves 5.

    [Illustration: CREAMED VEGETABLES]


CREAMED VEGETABLES

Use 2 cups of vegetable to one cup of white sauce No. 2 (see page 7). In
making the white sauce use the water in which the vegetables have been
cooked, rather than plain water. Pour the white sauce over the
vegetables and mix gently with a fork so as to preserve the dices,
squares, strips, or slices of vegetable. Variety may be obtained by
adding grated cheese, diced pimiento, shredded green pepper, chips of
broiled bacon, or celery salt to the white sauce.


STUFFED BAKED POTATO

  6 medium sized potatoes
  2 tbsp. butter
  1 tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. pepper
  2 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  2 tbsp. water
  1 egg white
  2 tbsp. grated cheese

Bake potatoes in a hot oven for 45 minutes or until soft. Remove from
oven and cut off the top third of each; then scoop out insides. Mash
potatoes, add seasoning, and then the Carnation and water heated
together; beat well; add egg white well beaten. Refill potato shell;
sprinkle top with grated cheese and put into a hot oven to brown. Serve
at once. Serves 6.


BAKED CAULIFLOWER

  1 medium cauliflower
  1 cup white sauce No. 2 (see recipe page 7)
  ⅓ cup bread crumbs stirred in
  1 tbsp. melted butter

Remove leaves and trim off stalk from the cauliflower. Soak in a
solution of 1 tbsp. vinegar, 1 tsp. salt, and 1 quart of cold water for
5 minutes to remove dirt and insects. Cook whole, stem up, in boiling
salted water until tender (about 10 minutes). Put cauliflower in a
buttered baking dish, pour the white sauce over it, and cover with
buttered bread crumbs. Brown in a moderate oven. Serves 6.




                                _Salads_


    [Illustration: Salads]

Salads served crisp and cold add zest and variety to any meal. The
secret of an attractive salad is to have all of the ingredients
thoroughly chilled and drained. In combining them use a fork, mixing
carefully so as not to mash the ingredients. Add the dressing just
before serving.


TOMATO SALAD

  6 tomatoes
  1 head of lettuce
  Mayonnaise

Select tomatoes of good shape and color. Peel and cut 3 thin slices off
the top of each tomato and arrange on lettuce on salad plates. Cover
slices and top of tomato with mayonnaise (see page 14); sprinkle with
paprika.

If desired, the inside of the tomato may be scooped out and the cup
sprinkled with salt. Then invert and chill; when ready to serve add a
chicken filling made by combining 1 cup chopped chicken, ½ cup diced
celery, and ⅓ cup nuts with mayonnaise. Or a vegetable filling may be
made by combining diced tomato, ¾ cup of diced celery, ⅓ cup nuts, and ½
cup chopped olives or sweet pickles with mayonnaise. Serves 6.


STUFFED CELERY

  6 stalks celery
  ⅔ cup cream cheese
  2 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 tsp. onion juice
  Paprika
  Mayonnaise
  1 tsp. chopped green pepper
  Lettuce leaves

Select crisp stalks of celery having deep grooves. Add milk and
seasoning to the cream cheese. Pile mixture securely into the grooves of
celery, leaving a fluffy, rough surface. Cut into 4 inch lengths. Select
a small crisp celery tip and place into one end. Sprinkle with paprika
and lay two or three stalks on a lettuce leaf. Serve with mayonnaise
(see page 14). Serves 6.

                  CARNATION MAKES THE DRESSING CREAMY


PEACH SALAD

  6 peaches
  Lemon juice
  2 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  ½ cup cream cheese
  Lettuce leaves
  ½ cup mayonnaise

Peel and cut peaches in half (or use halves of canned peaches). Sprinkle
with lemon juice to prevent discoloring. Place 2 halves on lettuce leaf
on each salad plate. Soften cheese with the Carnation Milk and combine
with the mayonnaise. Put mixture into a pastry bag and fill the hollows
of peaches leaving a rose on top, or simply fill carefully with a spoon.
Serves 6.


CARNATIONNAISE
(Mayonnaise)

  4 tbsp. flour
  1 tbsp. sugar
  1 tbsp. mustard
  1 tsp. salt
  Paprika
  1 cup salad oil
  ⅔ cup Carnation Milk
  ¼ cup cider vinegar
  ¾ cup water
  1 egg

Mix dry ingredients and to this add gradually ¼ cup of salad oil, ¼ cup
of cider vinegar, and ¾ cup of water. Stir until smooth. Cook over a
slow fire until thick and the flour is well cooked, stirring constantly.
Remove from fire and beat into the mixture 1 egg (which has been
slightly beaten), ⅔ cup of Carnation Milk, and ¾ cup of salad oil. Add
the milk and oil slowly and beat very smooth. This makes 3 cups of
mayonnaise. It will keep indefinitely.


FRUIT SALAD DRESSING

Carnationnaise is delicious for fruit salads. If a creamier dressing is
desired combine ½ cup whipped Carnation (see directions page 31) and 1
cup of Carnationnaise.


THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING

  2 cups Carnationnaise
  ½ cup Chili sauce
  1 tsp. finely cut onion
  3 tbsp. diced pimiento
  3 tbsp. diced green pepper
  2 hard cooked eggs, cut fine
  3 tbsp. chopped sweet pickle

Mix the ingredients and keep in a cool place until ready to use.
Excellent with any vegetable salad.


NO EGG MAYONNAISE

  ½ tsp. salt
  Few grains pepper
  ½ tsp. mustard
  ½ tsp. sugar
  ¼ tsp. paprika
  2 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  ½ cup salad oil
  1 tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar

Mix dry ingredients with Carnation. Add oil gradually, beating
constantly. Add lemon juice or vinegar and beat until smooth. This makes
⅔ cup of dressing.


COOKED SALAD DRESSING

  1 tsp. mustard
  1 tsp. salt
  Dash cayenne
  2 tbsp. sugar
  1½ tbsp. flour
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  2 egg yolks, beaten
  ½ cup water
  2 tbsp. melted butter
  ¼ cup vinegar

Mix dry ingredients in top of double boiler. Gradually add egg yolks and
butter; then add the Carnation diluted with the water; stir constantly
to keep smooth. Cook over hot water for 10 minutes. Remove from fire,
cool, and add vinegar.

                    CARNATION MILK FOR BETTER BAKING




                             _Quick Breads_


Breads which are lightened by means of yeast (see recipe page 30) are
called “yeast breads” while those lightened by other leavening agents
are termed “quick breads”. The latter can be prepared in a very short
time and are intended to be served at once while they are fresh and hot.


PLAIN MUFFINS

  2 cups bread flour
  4 tsp. baking powder
  2 tbsp. sugar
  ¾ tsp. salt
  1 egg
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅔ cup water
  2 tbsp. melted fat

Sift dry ingredients. Beat egg and add Carnation diluted with the water;
add melted fat. Stir liquid quickly into the dry ingredients. Pour
immediately into oiled muffin tins. Bake 20-25 minutes in a hot (425°F)
oven. Makes 12 muffins.


GRAHAM DATE MUFFINS

  1 cup bread flour
  1 cup graham flour
  4 tsp. baking powder
  2 tbsp. sugar
  ¾ tsp. salt
  ½ cup chopped dates
  2 tbsp. melted fat
  1 egg
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅔ cup water

Sift the bread flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt and add to the
graham flour; add the dates. Beat the egg and add Carnation diluted with
the water; add melted fat. Stir liquids quickly into the dry
ingredients. Pour immediately into oiled muffin tins. Bake 20-25 minutes
in a hot oven (425°F). Makes 12 muffins.


NUT BREAD

  1½ cups bread flour
  1½ cups graham flour
  4 tsp. baking powder
  ⅓ cup sugar
  1 tsp. salt
  1 egg
  1 cup chopped nuts
  ¾ cup water
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  2 tbsp. fat, melted

Sift baking powder, sugar, salt, and bread flour and add to the graham
flour; add the chopped nuts. Mix the melted fat, Carnation diluted with
the water, and well beaten egg. Combine liquids quickly with the dry
ingredients. Pour into a greased loaf pan, cover and let stand for 20
minutes; bake in a hot (400°F) oven.


JIFFY COFFEE CAKE

  2 cups flour
  3 tsp. baking powder
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ cup cold fat
  ½ cup currants
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅔ cup water
  1 egg

Sift the dry ingredients, rub or cut in the fat, and add the currants.
Mix the beaten egg with the Carnation diluted with the water; add to the
flour mixture. Pour into a greased pan, sprinkle with sugar and
cinnamon, and bake in a moderate (375°F) oven for about 40 minutes.

The same recipe may be used for a DUTCH APPLE CAKE. After the mixture is
poured into the pan, press sharp edge of sliced apples into dough in
parallel rows. Sprinkle top with 3 tbsp. sugar mixed with ½ tsp.
cinnamon. Bake in a moderate (375°F) oven for 40 minutes.

    [Illustration: QUICKBREADS]


BAKING POWDER BISCUITS

  2 cups bread flour
  4 tsp. baking powder
  1 tsp. salt
  4 tbsp. cold fat
  2 tsp. sugar
  ¼ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water

Sift dry ingredients, rub in shortening with finger tips or cut in with
two knives. Add Carnation diluted with the water and mix to soft dough.
Toss on slightly floured board, roll or pat out to ¾ inch thickness, and
cut with biscuit cutter. Brush top with thin layer of melted fat. Bake
in a hot (450°F) oven for 10 to 12 minutes. Makes about 14 biscuits.
EMERGENCY BISCUITS are made by using the same recipe, changing the
liquid to ⅓ cup Carnation and ⅔ cup water. Drop by spoonsful onto a
greased tin and bake.


PIN WHEEL BISCUITS

  2 cups bread flour
  4 tsp. baking powder
  1 tsp. salt
  3 tbsp. sugar
  4 tbsp. cold fat
  ¼ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water
  ⅓ cup chopped raisins
  2 tbsp. chopped citron
  ⅓ tsp. cinnamon
  2 tbsp. sugar

Sift the first four ingredients, rub or cut in the shortening. Add
Carnation diluted with the water and mix to soft dough. Toss on slightly
floured board, pat or roll to ¼ inch thickness, sprinkle with raisins,
citron, cinnamon, and sugar. Roll like a jelly roll. Cut off pieces ¾
inch in thickness and place on a greased tin. Bake in a hot oven (450°F)
for 10 to 15 minutes.


SCONES

  2 cups pastry flour
  4 tsp. baking powder
  2 tsp. sugar
  1 tsp. salt
  4 tbsp. fat
  2 eggs
  3 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  3 tbsp. water

Sift dry ingredients, rub or cut in fat. Dilute Carnation with water;
add milk with beaten eggs (reserving a little of the egg white); mix to
soft dough. Roll out to ¾ inch thickness, cut into squares or diamond
shapes. Brush over with a little of the reserved egg white and sprinkle
with sugar. Bake in a hot (450°F) oven.




                                _Cakes_


    [Illustration: Cakes]

The secret of making a light, feathery cake of velvety smoothness lies
in the selection of materials of good quality, accurate measurements,
and correct blending of ingredients. Always sift the flour once before
measuring. Carefully follow the directions given for combining
ingredients. To obtain a level cake it is well to push the dough toward
the corners of the pan before putting the cake in the oven. When the
cake is well browned, shrunken from the edge of the pan, and when the
dough springs back quickly if slightly dented in the center, the cake is
done.


DEVIL’S FOOD CAKE

  1¾ cups pastry flour
  2 tsp. baking powder
  ½ tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt
  5 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  5 tbsp. water
  1 cup sugar
  ⅜ cup fat
  2 eggs
  2 squares chocolate
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Measure flour after sifting once. Resift with baking powder, soda, and
salt. Dilute the Carnation Milk with the water. Cream fat and sugar
thoroughly. Add well beaten eggs and beat until mixture is light colored
and fluffy. Add the melted chocolate and stir until well blended. Add
flour and milk alternately to the creamed mixture, beginning and ending
with the flour as this helps to keep the mixture creamy. Add vanilla the
last few stirs. Pour immediately into pan that has been well oiled and
dusted with a thin film of flour. Bake in a moderate (360°F) oven.


PLAIN CAKE

  1⅓ cups pastry flour
  2½ tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt
  3 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  5 tbsp. water
  ¼ cup fat
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 egg
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Measure flour after it has been sifted once. Resift flour with baking
powder and salt. Dilute the Carnation with the water. Cream the fat and
sugar thoroughly. Add well beaten egg and beat until the mixture is a
light color and creamy. Add the flour and milk alternately to the
creamed mixture, beginning and ending with the flour, as this helps to
keep the mixture creamy. Add the flavoring last. Pour into tins that
have been oiled and dusted with a thin film of flour. Bake in a moderate
(375°F) oven.

                   CARNATION MAKES FINE TEXTURE CAKES


SPICE CAKE

  1 tsp. cinnamon
  ½ tsp. nutmeg
  ½ tsp. cloves
  Few grains cayenne
  1½ tbsp. boiling water
  1¾ cups pastry flour
  3 tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt
  2 eggs
  4 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  6 tbsp. water
  ½ cup fat
  1 cup sugar

Soak spices in boiling water. Measure flour after sifting once. Resift
twice with the baking powder and salt. Dilute Carnation with the water.
Cream fat and sugar thoroughly. Add well beaten eggs and beat until the
mixture is light and fluffy. Add spices, then the flour and milk
alternately, beginning and ending with the flour. Bake in a moderate
(375°F) oven.


WHITE CAKE

  1½ cups pastry flour
  3 tsp. baking powder
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  ½ tsp. vanilla or almond
  6 tbsp. water
  ⅜ cup fat
  1 cup sugar
  2 egg whites

Measure flour after sifting once. Resift with baking powder and salt.
Dilute Carnation with the water. Cream fat and sugar thoroughly. Add
unbeaten egg whites and beat until mixture is very light. Add flour and
milk alternately, beginning and ending with flour. Add flavoring. Bake
in a moderate (375°F) oven.


CARAMEL NUT CAKE

  1½ cups pastry flour
  2 tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt
  ¼ cup Carnation Milk
  ¼ cup water
  ⅓ cup shortening
  1 cup brown sugar
  2 eggs
  ½ cup chopped nuts
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Measure flour after sifting once. Resift with baking powder and salt.
Dilute Carnation with the water. Cream fat and sugar thoroughly. Add
well beaten eggs and beat until mixture is light and creamy. Dredge the
nuts with part of the flour. Add flour and milk alternately to the
creamed mixture, beginning and ending with the flour. Add the nuts and
vanilla. Bake in a moderate (375°F) oven. Ice with Caramel Icing (Page
26).


LEMON COCOANUT COOKIES

  1½ cups pastry flour
  2 tsp. baking powder
  Few grains salt
  2 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  3 tbsp. water
  ¼ cup fat
  1 cup cocoanut
  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg
  ½ tsp. lemon extract

Mix as for Plain Cake (page 17). Add flavoring and cocoanut at the last.
Drop by spoonsful on oiled tins, allowing about 2 inches space between
each cooky. Bake in a hot (400°F) oven.


FUDGE SQUARES

  1 cup pastry flour
  1 tsp. baking powder
  Few grains salt
  2 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  2 tbsp. water
  ¼ cup fat
  1 cup sugar
  2 eggs
  2 squares chocolate
  1 tsp. vanilla
  ⅓ cup nuts

Mix as for Devil’s Food Cake (page 17). Pour ½ inch deep into a cake pan
that has been well oiled and dusted with a thin film of flour. Bake in a
moderate (375°F) oven. Ice with Fudge Icing (page 26). Cut in squares.

                  CARNATION IS PURE MILK, DOUBLE RICH




                                _Pastry_


Home made pies “like mother used to make”! Doesn’t that anticipation
make your mouth water? And really, pastry making is not such a difficult
culinary task if the following precautions are observed.

Keep all ingredients as cold as possible. If the fat is rubbed into the
flour with the fingers, use quick and light motion for if the fat is
melted the crust will be tough. Use the minimum amount of water needed
to hold the dough together. Chilling the dough before rolling makes it
easier to handle and also lighter. Roll just enough dough for one crust
at a time. Use quick light motion, from the center outward so as to keep
the shape round.

Do not grease the pie tin. Fit dough smoothly to pie tin so no air is
enclosed. If crust is to be baked before the filling is added, the pie
tin may be inverted and the dough fitted on the outside. Handle dough as
little as possible. Bake in hot oven (450°F).


PLAIN PASTRY

  2 cups pastry flour or 1¾ cups bread flour
  ½ cup cold fat
  1 tsp. salt
  Approximately ⅓ cup cold water

Sift flour and salt; cut or rub in shortening; add the cold water
gradually, adding just enough to hold the dough together. Let chill for
20 minutes. Divide dough in two parts and roll out to ⅛ inch thickness
on a slightly floured board. Line pie tin, crimp edge with thumb and
finger; prick sides and bottom with fork to preserve the shape. Bake in
a hot oven (450°F) for 12 to 20 minutes. For a two crust pie, line the
pie tin with pastry, moisten rim with cold water, add filling and cover
with top crust which has incisions cut in it to allow the escape of
steam. Press edges of upper and lower dough together, trim off excess
and bake in a hot oven (450°F). This recipe makes 2 crusts.


PUMPKIN PIE

  1¼ cups steamed pumpkin
  ⅞ cup brown sugar
  1 tsp. cinnamon
  1 tsp. ginger
  2 tbsp. orange juice
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 eggs
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  ¼ cup water

Mix materials in order given and pour into an unbaked pastry shell.
Place in a hot (450°F) oven to set the crust. After 10 minutes reduce
the temperature to 250°F for the rest of the period. Bake about 1 hour.
Makes 1 pie.


BUTTERSCOTCH PIE

  1½ cups brown sugar
  ½ cup flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  1¾ cups Carnation Milk
  ⅞ cup water
  3 tbsp. butter
  3 eggs

Mix sugar, flour, and salt thoroughly; scald Carnation and water
together; add milk to dry mixture stirring until well blended. Return to
the double boiler and cook for 25 minutes, stirring occasionally; add to
well beaten egg yolks and continue cooking for 2 minutes; add butter.
Pour filling into baked pastry shell. Cover with meringue made by
folding 4 tbsp. sugar and ¼ tsp. baking powder into 3 stiffly beaten egg
whites. Brown in a slow oven (300°F). Makes 1 large pie. To make RAISIN
BUTTERSCOTCH PIE use the same recipe, adding 1 cup of raisins to the
filling.

    [Illustration: LEMON CREAM PIE]


LEMON CREAM PIE

  1½ cups sugar
  4½ tbsp. flour
  Few grains salt
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  1 tsp. grated lemon rind
  5 tbsp. lemon juice
  1 tbsp. butter
  2 eggs
  ¾ cup water

Mix sugar, flour, and salt thoroughly; scald Carnation with the water;
add milk to dry mixture, stirring until well blended. Return to the
double boiler and cook for 25 minutes, stirring occasionally; add to
well beaten egg yolks and continue cooking for 2 minutes; add butter,
lemon juice and rind. Pour filling into baked pastry shell. Cover with
meringue made by folding 2 tbsp. powdered sugar or granulated sugar and
⅛ tsp. baking powder into 2 stiffly beaten egg whites. Brown in a slow
(300°F) oven. Makes 1 pie.


PINEAPPLE PIE

  4 tbsp. flour
  ⅔ cup sugar
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  1⅓ cups crushed pineapple
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  1 cup water
  ⅔ tsp. vanilla
  3 eggs

Follow method given for lemon pie, adding vanilla and well drained
pineapple in place of the lemon. Use 4 tbsp. sugar, ¼ tsp. baking powder
and 3 egg whites for the meringue. Makes 1 large pie.


CHOCOLATE PIE

  2 squares chocolate
  1 cup boiling water
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  4 tbsp. flour
  ⅞ cup sugar
  ¼ tsp. salt
  3 eggs
  1 tbsp. butter
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Melt the chocolate, add the boiling water and milk and continue heating
until the mixture is smooth. Mix flour, sugar, and salt and add the hot
chocolate mixture gradually, stirring so as to prevent lumping. Return
to double boiler and cook 25 minutes, stirring occasionally. Pour over
the well beaten egg yolks beating constantly. Return to double boiler
and cook 2 minutes longer. Add flavoring and pour into baked pastry
shell. Cover with meringue made by folding 4 tbsp. sugar and ¼ tsp.
baking powder into stiffly beaten egg whites. Brown in a slow (300°F)
oven. Makes 1 pie.




                               _Puddings_


    [Illustration: Puddings]

The desserts presented here are suggested as a means of including more
milk in the diet, in order that the advised quota (1 quart daily for
each member of the family) may be included. Consider the dessert in its
relation to the whole meal so that it will supply dietary needs which
have not been filled in the other courses. Serve a light dessert with
heavy meals, and heavy desserts with light meals.


CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE

  2 tbsp. cornstarch
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1⅓ cups cold water
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  1½ squares unsweetened chocolate
  1 egg
  1 tsp. vanilla

Combine cornstarch, sugar, and salt, mixing thoroughly. Mix with ⅓ cup
cold water and add slowly to 1 cup of Carnation which has been diluted
and scalded with 1 cup of water. Cook over hot water for 15 minutes,
stirring constantly until thickened. Melt chocolate and add to cooked
mixture; then add to the well beaten egg and cook 2 minutes longer.
Remove from fire, add flavoring and chill. Serves 5.


COCOANUT BLANC MANGE

  ¼ cup cornstarch
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 cup water
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  ⅔ cup cocoanut
  2 egg whites
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt with ½ cup cold water. Dilute Carnation
with ½ cup water and scald; add the cornstarch mixture slowly to the
scalded milk. Cook in a double boiler for 20 minutes, stirring
constantly until thickened. Cool slightly and add the shredded cocoanut,
stiffly beaten egg whites and the vanilla. Nuts, dates, or candied
cherries may be added if desired. Serves 5.

                     CARNATION MAKES TASTY PUDDINGS


CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING

  2 squares bitter chocolate
  ¾ cup sugar
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 cups hot water
  2 cups stale bread crumbs
  2 eggs
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 tsp. vanilla

Melt the chocolate; add the sugar and 1 cup of Carnation diluted with 1
cup of water; cook until the mixture is smooth. Soak crumbs for 20
minutes in 1 cup of Carnation diluted with 1 cup of water; then combine
with chocolate mixture. Add slightly beaten eggs, salt, and flavoring.
Pour into a greased baking dish, set in a pan of hot water, and bake in
a slow (300°F) oven for 1 hour. Serves 8.


LEMON RICE CREAM

  ½ cup rice
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. salt
  1½ cups Carnation Milk
  1½ cups water
  Grated rind of ¾ lemon
  2 tbsp. powdered sugar
  2½ tbsp. lemon juice
  2 eggs
  ¼ tsp. lemon extract

Wash rice and soak in cold water for an hour. Drain, put into double
boiler; add the Carnation diluted with 1½ cups water; add salt and cook
until rice is soft. Add sugar, lemon rind, lemon juice, and egg yolks
slightly beaten. Cook until it thickens, about 5 minutes, then turn into
a buttered baking dish, cover with a meringue made from egg whites,
powdered sugar, and lemon extract. Put in a slow (300°F) oven just long
enough to brown. Serves 8.


PINEAPPLE RICE PUDDING

  ½ cup rice
  ½ cup sugar
  1½ cups Carnation Milk
  1½ cups water
  1 cup crushed pineapple
  2 eggs
  ½ tsp. salt

Wash rice and soak in cold water for an hour. Drain; put into double
boiler; add Carnation diluted with 1½ cups water; add salt and cook
until rice is soft. Add sugar, egg yolks slightly beaten, and grated
pineapple. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites, pour into a buttered
baking dish and bake for about 30 minutes in a slow (300°F) oven.


DATE TAPIOCA CREAM

  ⅓ cup tapioca
  Few grains salt
  1 cup sugar
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 cups water
  2 small eggs
  1 cup chopped dates
  1 tsp. vanilla

Heat the Carnation and water together. Add tapioca, salt, and sugar to
hot milk. Cook in a double boiler for 25 minutes, or until tapioca is
transparent. Pour into well beaten eggs, return to double boiler and
continue cooking for 2 minutes. Add vanilla and dates. Chill. Serves 8.


CARAMEL TAPIOCA

  ⅓ cup tapioca
  Few grains salt
  2 small eggs
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 cups water
  1 cup light brown sugar
  ½ cup nut meats
  1 tsp. vanilla

Heat the Carnation and water together. Add tapioca, salt, and sugar to
hot milk. Cook in a double boiler for 25 minutes, or until tapioca is
transparent. Pour into well beaten eggs, return to double boiler and
continue cooking for 2 minutes longer. Add vanilla and nuts. Chill.
Serves 8.

                   CARNATION MAKES DELICIOUS DESSERTS




                          _Gelatine Desserts_


In making the following desserts be sure to chill the Carnation Milk
thoroughly before whipping.


CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE

  1⅛ tbsp. gelatine
  2 tbsp. cold water
  ½ cup sugar
  1½ cups Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water
  1 square bitter chocolate
  ½ tsp. vanilla
  ½ doz. lady fingers

Soak granulated gelatine in 2 tbsp. cold water for 5 minutes. Melt
shaved chocolate in double boiler, add sugar, ½ cup water, and ½ cup
Carnation. Let cook 5 minutes or until smooth; pour over gelatine and
stir until dissolved. When cool, add the vanilla. Whip 1 cup of
Carnation which has been chilled for a couple of hours, gradually add
the chocolate and gelatine mixture and stir until it begins to thicken.
When well thickened pour carefully into a mold which has been lined with
lady fingers. Let stand in a cold place for an hour or more. When ready
to serve turn out on a flat dish, cover with whipped cream, and garnish
with maraschino cherries or nuts. Serves 5.


MACAROON DESSERT

  1¼ tbsp. gelatine
  ¾ cup water
  9 macaroons, crumbled
  1¾ cup Carnation Milk
  2 egg yolks, slightly beaten
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 tsp. vanilla

Soak gelatine for 5 minutes in ¼ cup water mixed with ¼ cup of
Carnation. Scald ½ cup of Carnation diluted with ½ cup of water; pour
over slightly beaten egg yolks to which the sugar has been added; cook
in a double boiler until the mixture thickens slightly (about 3
minutes); pour over the gelatine and stir until dissolved. When cool,
add the vanilla. Whip 1 cup of Carnation which has been chilled for a
couple of hours, gradually add the gelatine mixture and stir until it
begins to thicken. Add the crumbled macaroons and pour into a mold. Let
stand in a cold place for an hour or more. When ready to serve turn out
on a flat dish and garnish as desired. Serves 5.


PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM

  1¼ tbsp. gelatine
  ¼ cup cold water
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  1 cup grated pineapple and juice
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  3 tbsp. lemon juice
  ½ cup sugar

Soak gelatine in cold water for 5 minutes. Heat pineapple, sugar and
salt; add the soaked gelatine and lemon juice. Set in a pan of cold
water to cool. Whip the Carnation which has been chilled for a couple of
hours; as soon as the pineapple mixture begins to thicken add it to the
whipped Carnation. Pour into a mold and chill. Serves 5.


PRUNE CREAM

  1 cup chopped cooked prunes
  1½ tbsp. lemon juice
  ¼ cup powdered sugar
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  ¼ tsp. gelatine

Whip Carnation Milk, following directions on page 31. Add lemon juice,
sugar, and few grains of salt to chopped cooked prunes. Fold the prune
mixture into the whipped Carnation. Serves 5.




                              _Ice Creams_


    [Illustration: Ice Creams]

Ice Cream is not only a delightful and refreshing dessert but also a
valuable food. Because Carnation Milk is double rich it makes an
especially delicious ice cream.


PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM

  4 cups Carnation Milk
  ½ tbsp. gelatine
  1 cup of sugar
  1 cup grated pineapple

Heat one cup of Carnation; soak the gelatine in 1 tbsp. cold milk, and
add to the hot milk; stir until dissolved. Strain the pineapple, using
only the dry grated fruit. Add the remaining milk, pineapple, and sugar,
to the gelatine mixture. Stir until everything is well blended. Chill
and freeze, using 1 part of salt to 5 parts of ice. Serves 10.


CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM

  1 cup sugar
  Few grains salt
  4 cups of Carnation Milk
  2 sqs. of bitter chocolate
  3 eggs
  1 tsp. vanilla

Heat the milk with the sugar in the double boiler. Melt the chocolate
and add to the hot milk; continue heating until mixture is well blended.
Pour into the well beaten eggs; return to double boiler and continue
cooking for 2 minutes. Add salt and flavoring. Chill and freeze, using 1
part of salt to 5 parts of ice. Serves 10.


BANANA ICE CREAM

  5 good sized bananas
  4 cups Carnation Milk
  1 cup sugar
  2 tbsp. lemon juice

Crush bananas to a soft pulp. Add Carnation, sugar, and lemon juice.
Stir until sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Chill and freeze, using 1 part
of salt to 5 parts of ice. Serves 10.


ORANGE SHERBERT

  1 lemon
  1 orange
  ½ cup sugar
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 egg whites

Grate rinds of lemon and orange, squeeze out juice. Add grated rind and
sugar to Carnation; then add gradually the lemon and orange juice,
stirring constantly. The milk may have a slightly curdled appearance
after this but it disappears in the freezing. Freeze partially, then add
the egg whites beaten stiff, and continue freezing. Serves 5.




                        _Miscellaneous Desserts_


    [Illustration: STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE]


STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE

  2 cups bread flour
  4 tsp. baking powder
  1 tsp. salt
  5 tbsp. fat
  1 tbsp. sugar
  ¼ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup cold water

Sift dry ingredients, rub in fat, add Carnation diluted with water, and
mix quickly. Toss on slightly floured board, pat to 1 inch thickness,
and put in layer cake tins. Cover top with thin layer of melted fat.
Cover and let stand for 10 minutes. Bake about 12 minutes in hot (450°F)
oven. Put sweetened and slightly crushed berries between and on top of
shortcake. Save a few large berries to put on top.


CHEESE TORTE

  1 package of zwieback (6 oz.)
  2 cups of sugar
  1 tsp. cinnamon
  1½ lb. cottage cheese
  ⅓ cup butter, melted
  4 eggs
  ½ cup chopped nuts
  Few grains salt
  4 tbsp. flour
  Juice and rind of ½ lemon
  ½ tsp. vanilla
  1 cup Carnation Milk

Roll zwieback fine; mix with 1 cup sugar, cinnamon, and melted butter.
Line a buttered spring cake pan or other baking dish with this mixture,
saving ⅔ cup for the top. Press the mixture on the bottom and sides of
the baking dish. Beat eggs well and add 1 cup of sugar, salt, flavoring,
Carnation, cheese, and flour. Mix all together and press the mixture
through a sieve. Beat well, add nuts and pour into the lined mold. Put
crumbs on top and bake in a moderate oven (325°F) for 1 hour. Turn off
heat and let stand in oven 1 hour or until cool. Serves 10.


CUP CUSTARD

  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 cups water
  5 eggs
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 tsp. vanilla

Scald Carnation and water; beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt, vanilla
and scalded milk. Pour into individual buttered custard cups, set in a
pan of hot water. Sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake in a slow (225°F) oven
until a knife inserted in the center comes out clean. Requires about 40
minutes. Serves 8.

                     CARNATION MAKES SMOOTH SAUCES




                    _Dessert Sauces and Cake Icings_


The following delicious sauces and icings will give even the simplest
pudding and cake a most festive air.


BUTTERSCOTCH SAUCE

  ⅔ cup light corn syrup
  1 cup light brown sugar
  ¾ cup Carnation Milk
  Chopped nuts, if desired
  4 tbsp. butter

Cook sugar, syrup, and butter to form a thick syrup (the soft ball
stage, 235°F). Remove from the fire; beat in the Carnation and nuts.
Keep warm over water. May be served on pudding, cake, or ice cream.


FUDGE SAUCE

  1 tbsp. butter
  2 squares chocolate
  2 tbsp. corn syrup
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  1 tsp. vanilla
  ⅓ cup water
  2 cups sugar

Melt butter and shaved chocolate; add sugar, syrup, and Carnation
diluted with the water; cook until mixture forms a very soft ball in
cold water. Add vanilla and beat slightly. Keep warm over water. May be
served on pudding, cake, or ice cream.


CARAMEL ICING

  2 cups light brown sugar
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅓ cup water
  1 tbsp. butter
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Mix sugar and Carnation diluted with the water; cook until it forms a
soft ball in cold water. Add the butter, cool, add vanilla, and beat
until creamy. Spread on the cake.


FUDGE ICING

  1 tbsp. butter
  2 squares chocolate
  2 cups sugar
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅓ cup water
  ½ tsp. vanilla
  1 tbsp. corn syrup

Melt butter and shaved chocolate; add sugar, corn syrup, and Carnation
diluted with water. Cook until mixture forms a soft ball in cold water.
Cool, add vanilla, and beat until creamy. Spread on the cake.


UNCOOKED CHOCOLATE ICING

  2 tbsp. chocolate
  2 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  ½ tsp. vanilla
  1 cup powdered sugar

Melt chocolate, add Carnation, vanilla, and sugar and mix thoroughly.
Spread on the cake.


OPERA ICING

  2 cups powdered sugar
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  2 tbsp. butter

Mix ingredients and heat slowly to dissolve sugar. Boil 2 minutes. When
a little of the mixture is dropped into cold water, it should just hold
together. Remove from fire, beat until creamy and spread.

                   CARNATION MILK FOR CREAMY CANDIES




                               _Candies_


The candy maker who aspires to make smooth, creamy candy may be
interested in trying the following suggestions:

Use Carnation Milk because it is so rich and creamy. Carnation makes
especially delicious candy because of its homogenization. In this
process the butter fat particles are finely divided and evenly
distributed. For this reason Carnation blends thoroughly with the other
ingredients and makes an unusually smooth and creamy candy.

Use corn syrup or cream of tartar as these help to keep the candy from
becoming grainy.

While the candy is cooking stir just enough to prevent scorching. Too
much stirring is liable to make the candy grainy.

After the candy is cooked let it stand until it is almost cold. Then
beat vigorously until it is thick and creamy.


CARNATION FUDGE

  2 tbsp. butter
  2 sq. chocolate
  3 cups sugar
  2 tbsp. corn syrup (light)
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water
  1 tsp. vanilla
  Chopped nuts, if desired.

Melt butter and shaved chocolate in a sauce pan; add sugar, corn syrup,
and Carnation diluted with the water. Cook until mixture forms a soft
ball in cold water or reaches a temperature of 235°F, stirring
occasionally to prevent sticking. Remove from fire and let stand until
cool. When cool add vanilla and beat until creamy; add chopped nuts and
mold on a buttered plate. FUDGE BALLS may be made by forming the candy
into balls and rolling in chopped nuts, cocoanut, grated chocolate, or
dipping in melted chocolate. MARSHMALLOW FUDGE may be made by adding 1
cup of cut marshmallows instead of the nuts.


PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE

  2 cups sugar
  2 tbsp. corn syrup
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅓ cup water
  2 tbsp. peanut butter
  ½ tsp. vanilla
  ½ cup chopped peanuts, if desired.

Cook sugar, corn syrup, and Carnation diluted with the water. When it
reaches the soft ball stage, remove from fire and add peanut butter.
When cool add vanilla and beat until creamy. Mold on a buttered plate.


CREAM CARAMELS

  2 cups sugar
  2 cups corn syrup
  ½ cup butter
  ¼ tsp. salt
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  1 tsp. vanilla

Cook sugar, syrup, salt, and butter until the mixture reaches a clear,
thick consistency. Stir in gradually the Carnation Milk. Cook until it
forms a firm ball in cold water (240°F), stirring constantly to prevent
sticking. Add vanilla and pour into buttered pans. When cold remove from
pan and lay on an oiled bread board. With a long sharp knife and using a
saw-like motion cut into inch cubes. Wrap each piece in waxed paper.

    [Illustration: CANDIES]


PENOCHE

  2 cups brown sugar
  1 cup white sugar
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water
  2 tbsp. corn syrup (light)
  2 tbsp. butter
  1 tsp. vanilla
  ½ cup chopped nuts

Mix sugar, corn syrup, and Carnation diluted with the water. Cook until
it forms a soft ball in cold water or reaches a temperature of 235°F,
stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Remove from fire, add butter,
and let stand until cool. When cool add vanilla and beat until creamy;
add chopped nuts and mold on a buttered plate.


OPERA CARAMELS

  2 cups sugar
  ⅓ cup water
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  2 tbsp. corn syrup (light)
  2 tbsp. butter
  1 tsp. vanilla

Use same method as for Penoche.

½ cup candied cherries (cut in pieces), ½ cup chopped nuts, ½ cup
chopped dates, or ½ cup chopped figs may be added just before the candy
is molded. After the candy is cut into squares it may be dipped in
melted chocolate.


PRALINES

  2 cups powdered sugar
  1 cup maple syrup
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  1 cup chopped nuts

Boil sugar, syrup, and Carnation until the mixture forms a soft ball in
cold water. Remove from fire, when cool beat until creamy, add nuts and
drop from the tip of a spoon in small pieces on a buttered plate. Or the
mixture may be molded on a buttered plate and cut into squares.


COCOANUT CREAM CANDY

  2 cups sugar
  ¼ tsp. cream of tartar
  1 tbsp. butter
  ⅓ cup of Carnation Milk
  ⅓ cup water
  ½ tsp. vanilla
  1 cup shredded cocoanut

Mix sugar, cream of tartar, and Carnation diluted with the water; cook
to the soft ball stage. Remove from fire and add butter. When cool add
vanilla and beat until creamy. Add cocoanut and drop from spoon into
small balls on a buttered plate, or mold on a buttered plate and mark
into squares.




                            _Miscellaneous_


    [Illustration: Miscellaneous]

Among the following miscellaneous recipes you will find several
excellent luncheon or supper dishes. The delicious griddle cakes and
waffles will be a treat for any meal.


WELSH RAREBIT

  2 tbsp. butter
  2 tbsp. flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. mustard
  Few grains cayenne
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water
  1 egg
  ½ lb. American cheese

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and Carnation
diluted with water. Add finely cut or grated cheese and stir until
melted. Pour hot sauce on beaten egg and mix well. Serve hot on toast.
Serves 4.


CARNATION SANDWICH FILLING

  1 cup Carnation Milk
  ½ pound American Cheese (Best to use a package cheese wrapped in tin
              foil.)
  ½ can pimiento (small size)
  Salt and paprika

Cut cheese in small pieces and add to milk in a double boiler. Heat
until the cheese is melted and the mixture is creamy. Remove from the
fire immediately, add chopped pimientos, salt, and paprika. This makes a
very tasty sandwich spread; it is also delicious served on toast or
crackers or used in salads. Keep in a cool place; if too thick when
wanted, add more milk and stir well. Makes about 1 pint.


BAKED EGGS A LA CARNATION

  1½ tbsp. butter
  1½ tbsp. flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. pepper
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  ½ cup water
  4 to 6 eggs
  Buttered bread crumbs

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and Carnation
diluted with the water. Pour into a shallow baking dish. Cover the sauce
with the eggs, being careful not to break the yolks. Sprinkle buttered
bread crumbs over the top and bake in a moderately slow (325°F) oven
until eggs are firm. Garnish with parsley.

                      CARNATION MAKES BETTER BREAD


YEAST BREAD

  2 tbsp. shortening
  2 tbsp. sugar
  2½ tsp. salt
  1 cup boiling water
  1 cake compressed yeast dissolved in ¼ cup lukewarm water
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅔ cup water
  7½ cups bread flour, approximately

Put fat, sugar, and salt in a large bowl and pour over it the boiling
water and Carnation diluted with ⅔ cup water. When lukewarm (98°F) add
the dissolved yeast and 7 cups of flour; stir until thoroughly mixed.
Turn dough on to a slightly floured board, knead 10 minutes or until
smooth and elastic, adding flour as needed. Put into a bowl, cover and
let rise in a warm place (85°F) until double in bulk. Knead dough in the
bowl for one minute and again let rise until double in bulk. Cut in half
and shape into smooth loaves; place them in a greased pan to again rise
until double in bulk. Moisten top with diluted Carnation and place in a
hot oven (425°F). Bake about 35 minutes. Makes 2 loaves.


CLOVER LEAF ROLLS

  3 tbsp. butter, melted
  1 yeast cake dissolved in ¼ cup lukewarm water
  ⅔ cup Carnation Milk
  7½ cups bread flour, approximately
  2 tbsp. sugar
  2 tsp. salt
  1⅓ cups hot water

Add melted butter, sugar, and salt to hot water and Carnation. When
lukewarm add the dissolved yeast and mix thoroughly; add flour until
dough is stiff enough to knead. Knead for 10 minutes or until dough is
smooth and elastic. Let rise in a warm (85°F) place for about 2
hours—until the dough recedes when the hand is thrust into it. Knead
dough in the bowl for one minute and again let rise for about 20
minutes. Take small bits of dough, shape into tiny balls and place 3
balls into each greased section of a muffin tin. Let rise until bulk has
doubled—about 45 minutes. Bake in a hot (425°F) oven.


CINNAMON ROLLS

Use same dough as for Clover Leaf Rolls. When it is ready to be put in
tins roll it to ½ inch thickness, brush with melted butter, sprinkle
with a mixture of ½ tbsp. cinnamon, ¼ cup sugar and ½ cup raisins. Roll
as a jelly roll. Cut in ¾ inch slices and put into a greased pan. Let
rise until the size is doubled. Bake in a hot (425°F) oven for about 20
minutes.


GRIDDLE CAKES

  2¼ cups flour
  ¼ cup cornmeal
  4 tsp. baking powder
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 egg, well beaten
  ⅔ cup Carnation Milk
  1⅓ cups water
  4 tbsp. fat (melted)
  1 tsp. salt

Sift the dry ingredients; dilute the Carnation with the water; add
beaten egg to the milk and melted fat. Stir liquid quickly into the dry
ingredients. Pour or dip batter out carefully on the hot lightly greased
griddle. When the cakes are puffed, full of bubbles, and brown on the
edges turn and cook the other side. The griddle should be hot enough so
that a cake will brown on one side in 2 minutes.

                     CARNATION DISHES ARE DELICIOUS


WAFFLES

  1½ cups pastry flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  3 tsp. baking powder
  2 eggs
  ⅓ cup Carnation Milk
  ⅔ cup water
  1 tbsp. butter (melted)
  1 tbsp. sugar

Sift the dry ingredients. Dilute the Carnation with the water. Beat eggs
until foamy, add milk and melted fat. Stir liquids quickly into dry
ingredients. Bake in a hot waffle iron until brown and crisp.


DOUGHNUTS

  1½ tbsp. butter
  ⅔ cup sugar
  2 eggs
  5 tsp. baking powder
  ¾ tsp. salt
  3 tbsp. Carnation Milk
  6 tbsp. water
  ¼ tsp. nutmeg
  4 cups bread flour
  ½ tsp. cinnamon

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs and beat until light and fluffy.
Dilute the Carnation with the water. Sift dry ingredients and add them
with the milk, combining quickly; toss on a slightly floured board—pat
or roll out to ⅓ inch thickness. Cut with a doughnut cutter. Fry in deep
hot fat (365°F)—hot enough to brown a one inch cube of bread in 60
seconds. About 2 minutes is required for cooking. Drain on soft paper
and roll in confectioner’s sugar.


CORN CHOWDER

  1½ inch cube of fat salt pork
  1 small onion, diced
  2 tbsp. butter
  2 tbsp. flour
  4 cups raw potatoes, diced
  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 cups water
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  8 crackers
  1 No. 2 can corn
  1½ tsp. salt

Cut pork into small pieces and fry out the fat; add onion and cook until
brown. Strain fat into a sauce pan, add potatoes cut in ½ inch cubes, 2
cups of boiling water, and 1 tsp. salt; simmer until tender. Then add
the white sauce made of the butter, flour, seasonings, and Carnation
diluted with the water. Add the corn and heat the mixture to the boiling
point. Place a cracker in a soup plate, dish chowder and serve
immediately. Serves 10.


CLAM CHOWDER

  ¾ inch cube of fat salt pork
  ½ small onion, diced
  2 tbsp. butter
  2 cups raw potatoes, diced
  2 tbsp. flour
  1 tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. pepper
  1 can minced clams (7 oz. can)
  1 cup Carnation Milk
  1 cup water

Cut pork into small pieces and fry out the fat; add onion and cook until
brown. Strain fat into a sauce pan, add potatoes cut in ½ inch cubes, 1
cup of boiling water, and 1 tsp. salt; simmer until tender. Then add the
white sauce made of the butter, flour, seasonings, and Carnation diluted
with the water. Add the minced clams with their liquor and heat to the
boiling point. Place a cracker in a soup plate, dish chowder and serve
immediately. Serves 5.


WHIPPED CARNATION MILK

  1 cup Carnation Milk
  ¼ tsp. gelatine

Soak the gelatine in a tablespoon of cold Carnation; dissolve this in
the remaining milk which should be at the boiling point. Cool by placing
in a bowl surrounded by cracked ice. When cold whip until stiff. Sweeten
and flavor to taste.

                  CARNATION FOR HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES




                              _Beverages_


Coffee creamed with Carnation has a rich color and delightful flavor.
Carnation gives to cocoa that delicious creaminess and richness so much
desired and adds to its food value.


COCOA

  3 tbsp. cocoa (For children 2 tbsp. cocoa)
  2 tbsp. sugar
  ½ cup hot water
  1½ cups Carnation Milk
  1½ cups water
  ¼ tsp. vanilla
  Few grains salt

Mix cocoa, sugar, and salt and add the hot water; cook over a low fire
about 10 minutes. Add the Carnation which has been scalded with the
water; cook mixture in a double boiler for 10 minutes; add the vanilla.
Whisk with a Dover egg beater just before serving. Place a marshmallow
in the cup and pour over it the hot cocoa.


CHOCOLATE

  2 cups Carnation Milk
  2 cups water
  ⅓ cup sugar
  Few grains salt
  2 squares bitter chocolate
  ½ cup water

Scald the Carnation and water and add to it the sugar and salt. Shave
chocolate fine; add the ½ cup of water and heat over a low fire until
smooth. Combine chocolate mixture and scalded milk. Continue cooking in
a double boiler for 10 minutes. Serves 5.


COFFEE

  ½ cup coffee, ground medium
  ½ egg
  ½ cup cold water
  3 cups boiling water
  ¼ cup cold water

Mix the egg and ½ cup cold water and add to the coffee in the pot. Add
boiling water, boil up once, stir with a spoon and boil up again. Add
the ¼ cup cold water to settle coffee. Serve immediately. Cream with
undiluted Carnation. Serves 5.


EGG NOG

  1 egg
  Few grains salt
  2 tbsp. fruit juice
  1 tbsp. sugar
  ⅔ cup ice cold Carnation Milk
  ⅔ cup ice cold water
  Few gratings of nutmeg

Add salt to egg white and beat until stiff. Beat yolk until thick and
lemon colored; add the fruit juice and sugar. Dilute Carnation with the
water and combine with yolk mixture. Pour into a tall glass, add nutmeg
gratings and put egg white on top. Sprinkle top with chopped nuts and
serve at once. Serves 2.


CHOCOLATE MALTED MILK

  1½ tbsp. malted milk
  1½ tsp. cocoa
  1 tsp. sugar
  Few grains salt
  ½ cup water
  ½ cup Carnation Milk
  Few drops of vanilla

Mix the malted milk powder, cocoa, sugar, salt, and water, stirring
well. Cook for 3 minutes. Add Carnation and vanilla. Serve very hot or
ice cold. Makes 1 glass of malted milk.




                          _Table of Contents_


  Beverages                                                         Page
      Chocolate                                                       32
      Chocolate Malted Milk                                           32
      Cocoa                                                           32
      Coffee                                                          32
      Egg Nog                                                         32
  Cakes and Cookies
      Caramel Nut Cake                                                18
      Spice Cake                                                      18
      Devil’s Food Cake                                               17
      Fudge Squares                                                   18
      Lemon Cocoanut Cookies                                          18
      Plain Cake                                                      17
      White Cake                                                      18
  Cake Icings
      Caramel Icing                                                   26
      Fudge Icing                                                     26
      Opera Icing                                                     26
      Uncooked Chocolate Icing                                        26
  Candies
      Carnation Fudge                                                 27
      Cocoanut Cream Candy                                            28
      Cream Caramels                                                  27
      Opera Caramels                                                  28
      Peanut Butter Fudge                                             27
      Penoche                                                         28
      Pralines                                                        28
  Desserts, Gelatine
      Chocolate Charlotte                                             23
      Macaroon Dessert                                                23
      Pineapple Bavarian Cream                                        23
      Prune Cream                                                     23
  Desserts, Ice Creams
      Banana Ice Cream                                                24
      Chocolate Ice Cream                                             24
      Orange Sherbet                                                  24
      Pineapple Ice Cream                                             24
  Desserts, Miscellaneous
      Cheese Torte                                                    25
      Cup Custard                                                     25
      Strawberry Shortcake                                            25
  Desserts, Puddings
      Caramel Tapioca                                                 22
      Chocolate Blanc Mange                                           21
      Chocolate Bread Pudding                                         22
      Cocoanut Blanc Mange                                            21
      Date Tapioca Cream                                              22
      Lemon Rice Cream                                                22
      Pineapple Rice Pudding                                          22
  Dessert Sauces
      Butterscotch Sauce                                              26
      Fudge Sauce                                                     26
  Fish
      Salmon Croquettes                                                8
      Shrimp Wiggle                                                    8
      Tuna Fish a la King                                              8
  Meats
      Beef Loaf                                                       10
      Carnation Baked Ham                                              9
      Carnation Veal Birds                                            10
      Chicken A la King                                                9
      Creamed Chipped Beef                                             9
      Creamed Sweet Breads                                            10
      Pork Chops and Potatoes                                         10
  Miscellaneous
      Baked Eggs a la Carnation                                       29
      Carnation Sandwich Filling                                      29
      Clam Chowder                                                    31
      Corn Chowder                                                    31
      Doughnuts                                                       31
      Griddle Cakes                                                   30
      Waffles                                                         31
      Welsh Rarebit                                                   29
      Whipped Carnation                                               31
      Yeast Bread                                                     30
      Cinnamon Rolls                                                  30
      Clover Leaf Rolls                                               30
  Pastry
      Butterscotch Pie                                                19
      Chocolate Pie                                                   20
      Lemon Cream Pie                                                 20
      Pineapple Pie                                                   20
      Plain Pastry                                                    19
      Pumpkin Pie                                                     19
  Quick Breads
      Baking Powder Biscuits                                          16
      Dutch Apple Cake                                                15
      Emergency Biscuits                                              16
      Graham Date Muffins                                             15
      Jiffy Coffee Cake                                               15
      Nut Bread                                                       15
      Pin Wheel Biscuits                                              16
      Plain Muffins                                                   15
      Scones                                                          16
  Salads
      Peach                                                           14
      Stuffed Celery                                                  13
      Tomato                                                          13
  Salad Dressings
      Carnationnaise (Mayonnaise)                                     14
      Cooked Salad Dressing                                           14
      Fruit Salad Dressing                                            14
      No Egg Mayonnaise                                               14
      Thousand Island Dressing                                        14
  Sauces
      Caper Sauce                                                      7
      Cheese Sauce                                                     7
      Egg Sauce                                                        7
      Mock Hollandaise Sauce                                           7
      Pimiento Sauce                                                   7
      White Sauce                                                      7
  Soups
      Cream of Celery                                                  6
      Cream of Mushroom                                                6
      Cream of Pea                                                     6
      Cream of Potato                                                  6
      Cream of Tomato                                                  5
      Garnishes                                                        5
      Oyster Stew                                                      6
  Vegetables
      Baked Cauliflower                                               12
      Corn Souffle                                                    11
      Creamed Vegetables                                              12
      Scalloped Cabbage                                               11
      Spinach au Gratin                                               11
      Stuffed Potatoes                                                12




                      _Table Setting and Service_


When setting the table for luncheon or dinner, lay a plate for each
person served. At the right of each plate place an oyster fork, soup
spoon, and knives in the order they are to be used, the one first used
farthest from the plate. At the left of the plate lay the forks in the
order used, the one farthest from the plate to be used first. Always
have the tines of the forks and the bowls of the spoons turned upward
and the cutting edges of the knives turned toward the plate.

Place a napkin, folded, at the left of the fork; or when soup is served,
the napkin may be folded and placed on the plate with a roll or small
piece of bread partly folded within it. Set the glass for water above
the knife.

    [Illustration: Table setting]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

—Some recipes do not mention oven temperature; no attempt has been made
  to guess what should have been specified.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY HUNDRED FAVORITE RECIPES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
